1/18/24 Marshall school panel
Dr. Jonathan May is a Research Associate Professor at USC and Principal Scientist at the Information Sciences Institute (ISI), where he directs the Center for Useful Techniques Enhancing Language Applications Based on Natural And Meaningful Evidence. Dr. May's current research efforts include building empathetic chatbots to curb online toxicity, teaching agents to collaborate and compete in strategic gameplay, and developing interactive knowledge management systems. He was previously involved in multiple leadership positions in ISI’s efforts centered around translation and multilinguality. He has written and spoken about large language models extensively in the public sphere. May is an expert in architecture development for natural language processing, human-machine natural language interaction, computational journalism, machine translation, multilinguality, and transfer learning, with an extensive publication record that includes two outstanding paper awards and one best demo award. He has organized multiple NLP workshops and conferences at various service levels and currently is Treasurer of NAACL, the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. He is also an Amazon Scholar.


9/2023 AAAS
Jonathan May is a Research Associate Professor of Computer Science at USC. May is an expert in natural language processing, human-machine natural language interaction, computational journalism, machine translation, multilinguality, and transfer learning.



7/2023 NSF APTO
Dr. Jonathan May is a Research Associate Professor at USC and Research Team Leader at ISI, where he directs the Center for Useful Techniques Enhancing Language Applications Based on Natural And Meaningful Evidence. He is currently PI of ISI's efforts on DARPA Civil Sanctuary (building empathetic chatbots to curb online toxicity) and DARPA SHADE (teaching agents to collaborate and compete in strategic gameplay) as well as co-PI for ISI's efforts in DARPA’s KMASS and INCAS programs. He was previously involved in multiple leadership positions in ISI’s efforts centered around translation and multilinguality: PI of DARPA LORELEI, Co-PI of IARPA MATERIAL, and Co-PI of DARPA LwLL. He has written and spoken about large language models extensively in the public sphere. May is an expert in architecture development for natural language processing, human-machine natural language interaction, computational journalism, machine translation, multilinguality, and transfer learning, with an extensive publication record that includes two outstanding paper awards and one best demo award. He has organized multiple NLP workshops and conferences at various service levels and currently is Treasurer of NAACL.



1/2020 ASU

Jonathan May is a Research Assistant Professor in the Computer Science
Department at USC and the Information Sciences Institute (ISI). His
research interests include automata theory, machine translation,
semantic parsing, dialogue systems, information extraction, and
creative generation. He received a PhD from USC in 2010 and BS/MS from
UPenn in 2001.  He was a co-organizer of the International Workshop on
Semantic Evaluation (SemEval) and is the current treasurer of the
North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (NAACL). He has received a research award from ISI, an
outstanding paper award from NAACL, and a best demo paper award from
ACL.  


11/2019 SemaFor Proposal

Dr. Jonathan May is an Assistant Research
Professor of Computer Science at USC and a Research Lead at the
Information Sciences Institute (ISI). His research areas range from
semantic parsing  to machine learning to machine translation, spanning
the statistical and neural eras and 
the commercial and academic domains. His research won outstanding
paper and best demo paper awards at NAACL and ACL in 2018 for work on
the formal properties of Recurrent Neural Networks and on universal
tools for any-language NLP. Dr. May has four U.S. patents and is a PI
and Co-PI on several large DARPA and IARPA programs, including
DARPA-LORELEI and IARPA-MATERIAL.


??/2019 LwLL Proposal


\textbf{Dr. Jonathan May} is a Research Assistant Professor at
USC/ISI. His research in machine translation spans the statistical and
neural eras and the commercial and academic domains. He is PI of ISI's
contract in  DARPA LORELEI, and co-PI of ISI's contract in IARPA
MATERIAL.  



2/2019 AIHacks

Jonathan May is a Research Assistant Professor in the Computer Science
Department at USC and the Information Sciences Institute. His research
interests include automata theory, machine translation, semantic
parsing, dialogue systems, and machine learning. He received a PhD
from USC in 2010 and BS/MS from UPenn in 2001. His research won
outstanding paper and best demo paper awards in 2018 for work on the
formal properties of Recurrent Neural Networks and on universal tools
for any-language NLP. 
 

2/2019 Kairos Proposal

 
Dr. Jonathan May is a Research Assistant Professor in the Computer
Science Department of the Viterbi School of Engineering at the
University of Southern California and a Research Scientist at
USC/ISI. His research areas range from semantic parsing [Pus15] to
transfer learning [Zop16] to machine translation [Her17]. He also has
extensive effort in the design and application of unsupervised
learning models [May07, Gra08] and efficient inference through
networks [May10]. Prof. May's research won outstanding paper and best
demo paper awards at NAACL and ACL in 2018 for work on the formal
properties of Recurrent Neural Networks [Che18] and on universal tools
for any-language NLP [Her18]. He is PI of USC/ISI's prime contract in
DARPA-LORELEI and co-PI of USC/ISI's prime contract in
IARPA-MATERIAL. Prof. May has extensive experience in shared task
evaluations; apart from LORELEI and MATERIAL he has contributed to the
ISI team's efforts in DARPA-BOLT and DARPA-GALE, has run two SemEval
shared tasks on Abstract Meaning Representation parsing and generation
[May16, May17], and developed cross-lingual NER methods in TIDES’
surprise language challenge [May03]. He currently serves as
co-organizer of SemEval and treasurer of NAACL. 


11/2016, JHU/Penn Invited

Jonathan May is a Research Assistant Professor at the University of
Southern California's Information Sciences Institute
(USC/ISI). Previously, he was a research scientist at SDL Research
(formerly Language Weaver) and a scientist at Raytheon BBN
Technologies. He received a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the
University of Southern California in 2010 and a BSE and MSE in
Computer Science Engineering and Computer and Information Science,
respectively, from the University of Pennsylvania in 2001. Jon's
research interests include automata theory, natural language
processing, machine translation, and machine learning.


9/2014: NAACL Board

Jonathan May is a computer scientist at the University of Southern
California Information Sciences Institute. Previously, he was a
research scientist at SDL Language Weaver and a scientist at BBN
Technologies. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from USC-ISI
in 2010. Jonathan was Local Arrangements co-chair of NAACL HLT 2010 in
Los Angeles and has been a member of the program committee for ACL,
NAACL, and EMNLP since 2008. His research areas include machine
translation, formal language theory, and semantics. 

5/2014: ISI

Jonathan May is delighted to return to ISI. Contrary to popular belief
he has not been asked to re-do his PhD (obtained in 2010) due to
"irregularities" but instead has joined the institute as a computer
scientist, working on machine translation and semantics with Kevin
Knight and Jerry Hobbs. Prior to this he was a research scientist at
Language Weaver (now SDL). Before moving to Los Angeles Jonathan
worked for BBN Technologies (now Raytheon), where he co-wrote his very
first paper with current ISI director Prem Natarajan. Jonathan
received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of
Pennsylvania. All readers of this biography are heartily encouraged to
stop by office 940 for a complimentary sparkling water and lively
discussion of translation, automata, semantics, telepathy, or other
subjects. 
